# Design and Development of Flapping Wing UAV

**Authors:**  Arjun S and  Likhith J and  Nazneen Khanum D and  Preetham S Kabadi and  Nishanth P and  J K Bhushan
**Year:** 2023
**Source URL:** Local File: Design_and_Development_of_Flapping_Wing_UAV.pdf

## Abstract
from birds, bats and insects. They utilize continuous flapping wing motion to generate aerodynamic forces and moments. The fluid structure interaction analysis of biological and artificial flapping flyers is extremely complicated thus an efficient unsteady aerodynamic model is required in such time consuming problems as optimal flapping wing simulation. This project deals with designing a flapping wing air vehicle which includes applying inertial impulsive force to UAV in such a way that the flapping wing air vehicle reaches almost constant flight speed after removing the initial impulsive forces .The flow dynamics are different of the flapping wing air vehicles with that of the fixed wing UAV and this project deals with the utilization of the flapping wing in the UAV to overcome the challenges faced by a fixed wing UAV like maneuverability in remote areas, sound produced and identification during mission. Structural and aerodynamic characteristics of a bird in flight offer benefits over typical propeller or rotor driven unmanned air vehicle (UAV). Hence this study deals with the designing of an flapping wing UAV to overcome these drawbacks of fixed wing UAV. Keywords: Flapping Wing UAV, Radio Control, Micro Electro Mechanical System, Smart Composite Micro Structures I INTRODUCTION

## My Notes
- Start typing your research notes here...

---

## Full Paper Text
Vol. 3 - No. 1 - March 2023                                                         E-ISSN: 2582-9610  
  
  
                       Design and Development of Flapping Wing UAV  
  
                                                 Arjun S1, Likhith J2, Nazneen Khanum D3  
                                          Preetham S Kabadi4, Nishanth P5 & J K Bhushan6  
                                                            1,2,3,4Student, 5Professor, 6Assistant Professor  
  
                                                               Department of Aeronautical Engineering  
                                                      East West College of Engineering, Bangalore, India  
                                                           DOI: https://doi.org/10.34293/acsjse.v3i1.62  
  
Abstract - Flapping wing air vehicles are unmanned miniature aircraft’s that draw inspiration  
from birds, bats and insects. They utilize continuous flapping wing motion to generate  
aerodynamic forces and moments. The fluid structure interaction analysis of biological and  
artificial flapping flyers is extremely complicated thus an efficient unsteady aerodynamic model is  
required in such time consuming problems as optimal flapping wing simulation. This project deals  
with designing a flapping wing air vehicle which includes applying inertial impulsive force to UAV  
in such a way that the flapping wing air vehicle reaches almost constant flight speed after  
removing the initial impulsive forces .The flow dynamics are different of the flapping wing air  
vehicles with that of the fixed wing UAV and this project deals with the utilization of the flapping  
wing in the UAV to overcome the challenges faced by a fixed wing UAV like maneuverability in  
remote areas, sound produced and identification during mission. Structural and aerodynamic  
characteristics of a bird in flight offer benefits over typical propeller or rotor driven unmanned air  
vehicle (UAV). Hence this study deals with the designing of an flapping wing UAV to overcome  
these drawbacks of fixed wing UAV.  
Keywords: Flapping Wing UAV, Radio Control, Micro Electro Mechanical System, Smart  
Composite Micro Structures  
  
  
I       INTRODUCTION  
        Image in painting is a method for repairing damaged pictures or removing  
unnecessary elements from pictures. It recovers the missing or corrupted parts of an image so  
that the reconstructed image looks natural. In real world, many people need a system to  
recover damaged photographs, designs, drawings, artworks etc. damage may be due to  
various reasons like scratches, overlaid text or graphics etc.  
        This system could enhance and return a good looking photograph using a technique  
called image in painting. Image in painting modify and fill the missing area in an image inan  
undetectable way, by an observer not familiar with the original image. The technique can be  
used to reconstruct image damage due to dirt, scratches, overlaid text etc.  
        Some images contain mixed text-picture-graphic regions in which text characters are  
printed in an image. Detecting and recognizing these characters can be very important, and  
removing these is important in the context of removing indirect advertisements, and for  
aesthetic reasons. There are many applications of image in painting ranging from restoration  
of photographs, films, removal of occlusions such as text, subtitle, logos, stamps, scratches,  
red eye removal etc.  
  
  
  
  
ACS Journal for Science and Engineering                                                                 59  
Vol. 3 - No. 1 - March 2023                                                  E-ISSN: 2582-9610  
  
  
         Paper is organized as follows. Section II describes automatic text detection using  
morphological operations, connected component analysis and set of selection or rejection  
criteria. The flow diagram represents the step of the algorithm. After detection of text, how  
text region is filled using an In painting technique that is given in Section III. Section IV  
presents experimental results showing results of images tested. Finally, Section V presents  
conclusion.  
  
II       LITERATURE STUDY  
         The theory of aerodynamics is the culmination of many individuals . It probably  
began with prehistoric man’s desire to copy the actions of the bird and fly through the air.  
Arisototle conceived the notion that air has weight and Archimedes law of floating bodies  
formed the a basic principle of lighter-than-air vehicles .In the years around 1500 one man  
Leonardo da vinci foresaw the same shape of things to come. .Through his avid studies of  
bird flight came the principles of design that influenced many other scientists to work on  
ornithopters. Da vinci correctly concluded that it was the movement of wing relative to air  
and the resulting reaction that produces the lift necessary to fly. As a result of these studies,  
he designed several ornithopters - machines that were intended to copy bird’s wing –the  
muscle power being supplied by man .But these designs did not leave the drawing board. The  
first flying machine that carried a man did not imitate a bird .instead it was based on the  
lighter-than-air principle and took the form of a large hot-air balloon.  
         Constructed by the two Montgolfier brothers from France, Although ballooning  
thereafter became a popular time, man was at the mercy of the winds and could not fly where  
he willed.  
         Sir George Cayley of England (1773-1857) is generally recognized as the father of  
modern aerodynamics .He understood the basic forces acting on a wing and built a glider  
with a wing and a tail unit which flew successfully. During late 1800’s a number of inventors  
tried to use a steam engine to power their airplanes and had little success. Meanwhile,  
towards the end of the nineteenth century , a German named Otto lilienthal was successfully  
flying in gliders of his own design. Lilienthal proved the concept of heavier-than-air flight.  
Today these form of flying, now called hand gliding , is enjoying a substantial come back.  
  
  
  
  
                                 Figure 1.1 (a): Ornithopter  
  
  
  
  
ACS Journal for Science and Engineering                                                       60  
Vol. 3 - No. 1 - March 2023                                                 E-ISSN: 2582-9610  
  
  
III    METHODOLOGY  
  
  
                  PROJECT  
                                          MODELLING USING            REBUILDING OF  
               CONCEPTION AND  
                                           RAW MATERIALS              THE MODEL  
                 INITIATION  
  
  
                                                                   EXPERIMENTATION  
                                             DRAFTING  
               DATA COLLECTION                                          AND CG  
                                             OBJECTIVES  
                                                                     CALCULATION  
  
                  LITERATURE  
                  SURVEYS ON                SCOPE OF THE              RESULTS AND  
                FLAPPING WING                 PROJECT                 CONCLUSION  
                     UAVs  
  
  
IV     TECHNICAL DETAILS  
        Natural flyers use their wings as a lift-generating mechanism to stay aloft. One of the  
wing kinematics is clap-and-flapping. This technique suggests that wings are slapped together  
then flung apart at the end of each stoke. As a result, a bound vortex is formed on each wing  
edge, which remains attached until the next stroke, thus inducing circulation on the wing,  
creating a pressure differential and encouraging high values of lift. Other unsteady  
aerodynamic mechanisms, such as wing leading vertex and delayed stall , wing rotation, and  
wake capture, also contribute to lift generation in FW-UAVs. The first insect-sized FW-UAV  
invented was named Harvard Robobee. The high speed, highly articulated mechanisms that  
are necessary to replicate an insect-like wing flapping motion exists on a scale that is between  
micro electro mechanical systems (MEMS) and “macro” devices . Hence, a “meso” scale  
rapid fabrication method, the so-called smart composite microstructures (SCMs), were used  
to fabricate the Robobee. The flapping wing aircraft which will produce lift and thrust by the  
flapping mechanism. Using Bio-mimic various Ornithopter, designs have been suggested for  
civil and military applications especially for the purpose of surveillance. In this paper, the  
highly aerodynamic design for flapping wing UAV with advanced specifications have been  
created.  
        The flapping wing UAV made which can be used for surveillance or reconnaissance  
of a particular target and also for a specific environment without its own consciousness. The  
Ornithopter uses battery power, gear mechanism, which enables to increase the number of  
flaps. We are bringing down the specifications of various birds and trying it to convert it into  
perfect real time mechanism. As of the first initiative, the basic and operating principles of  
flight have been studied in order to understand the flapping mechanism.  
    • For an airplane/ bird to stay at a constant height, Lift force upwards = Weight force  
        downwards  
    • For an airplane/bird to stay at a constant speed, Thrust force forwards = opposing  
        force of Drag  
  
  
  
ACS Journal for Science and Engineering                                                      61  
Vol. 3 - No. 1 - March 2023                                                E-ISSN: 2582-9610  
  
  
  
  
                     Figure 1.2: Flight Action of a Flapping Wing UAV  
  
V       MECHANICAL DESIGN  
        Statistically, birds are all born with complex and special bone structure and muscular  
system, which endows their wings with more than ten DOF for each wing. They can on the  
one hand perform the basic flapping motion when flying, and on the other hand are able to  
deliberately adjust their muscles and feather to change their morphology, thus to maneuver  
and to change direction and attitudes at the same time. And that’s why birds are superior in  
deforming their wings and have remarkable flying performance. At the time when we first get  
started with developing our FW-UAV prototype, considering At the time when we first get  
started with developing our FW-UAV prototype, considering that the power that can be  
generated by the current MEMS technology, artificial chemical muscle and piezoelectric  
actuator is quite limited, which have been used by other scientists in their researches in the  
making of their ornithopters. we finally decided to use the more traditional means to drive the  
whole system, i.e. to use the more popular and mature technology, motor and mechanical  
transmission mechanism, to produce the required power and to achieve the payload of more  
than 100 grams. Since the schematic of these kind are mostly bulky, so in order to reduce  
weight and at the same time just to focus on exploring the inherent working principle of  
flapping flight, we simplified the motion of bird’s wings by adopting only one degree of  
freedom, that is, we made the wings of our prototype can only flap ups-and-downs. The  
flapping motion of the two wings are known as the planar flapping with which the wing  
endpoints have only planar trajectory, without considering the twisting and folding motion of  
real birds’ wings and without the typical spatial motion and adjustment. After determining the  
final arrangement of aerodynamic layout, transmission chain and methods to adjust our  
prototype’s attitude, we finished the designing and assembling process of our FW-UAV  
prototype.  
  
  
  
  
ACS Journal for Science and Engineering                                                     62  
Vol. 3 - No. 1 - March 2023                                                   E-ISSN: 2582-9610  
  
  
  
  
                          Figure 5.1: Tail Controlled by the Servos  
  
          There are 3 DOFs in total for this prototype. One is particularly used for the  
generation of flapping motion, of which the power is originated from the brushless motor,  
and the other two are for the adjustment movement of the pitch angle and roll angle of the tail  
provided by two servo motors mounted in the tail part, which will further directly affect the  
attitude of the body during flight. The 3D model of the prototype’s flapping mechanism and  
tail attitude adjustment mechanism we can see that the whole flapping system is comprised of  
brushless motor, mechanical transmission mechanism, spatial crank rocker mechanism and  
the wings. The movement and power will be transmitted in the following way: firstly we  
remotely control the rotational speed of the brushless motor, and the double reduction gear  
unit will slow down the revolving speed and at the same time increase torque acted on the  
spatial crank rocker mechanism. The ball head tension rod connecting the crank and the wing  
rocker rod will transform the rotational motion of the crank to be the reciprocating swing of  
the wings. The rocker that swings to and fro acts as the radius and humerus of birds’ wings.  
When the rocker swings, the wings flap ups-and-downs  
          The wing surface is covered with a kind of cloth membrane, which are usually used to  
make kites. When flapping, the wing interacts with the air, and the air then will be pushed  
backward, producing a certain amount of thrust and lift. On each side of the wing, we glued  
spars (see as Figure 5.3) that are used to strengthen the wing plane. The function of these  
spars mounted on the wing surface play a quite important role in generating aerodynamic  
forces, both their amplitude and direction, known as the wing flexibility determines the  
efficiency of flapping aerodynamics.  
          On the other hand, from the 3D model of the tail part we can see that the tail has the  
same plane structure as the wings. It also use the same kind of membrane cloth as its surface,  
and use two servo motors to adjust the movement of the tail part. The motion of the two  
servos is transmitted to the tail by using two parallelogram mechanisms. Among which servo  
1 is used to control the pitch motion of the tail plane, which results in the tail revolves around  
axis 1 And servo 2 is used to control the roll motion of the tail plane, which will result in the  
tail revolves around axis 2, which is also the output axis of servo 2. While the wings of the  
FAV are responsible for generating thrust and lift, the empennage is then mainly in charge of  
generating the pitch torque and yaw torque relative to the center of body mass. The principle  
of the generation of these torques is that when the tail surface are applied with wind and air,  
  
ACS Journal for Science and Engineering                                                        63  
Vol. 3 - No. 1 - March 2023                                                  E-ISSN: 2582-9610  
  
  
the forces generated on the tail will produce a torque relative to the mass center of the body.  
And these torques will in turn effect the attitude and direction of the flight trajectory and the  
attitude of the body. The flapping frequency of the wings is directly controlled by adjusting  
the rotational speed of the motor, the requiring value is about 3~7 Hz. And the flapping  
amplitude and stroke range is fixed in our model, which is about –11°~45°.  
        The material of the main body is mostly balsa wood, which is cut from a large and  
complete sheet of balsa wood. The main balsa wood body frame is used to support and  
mount all other parts. Speaking of polythene sheet covered on the wing surface, of which the  
thickness and softness is of great significance.  
        We’ve tried various clothes of different stiffness, and we found that although mostly  
they are capable of generating enough lift and propulsion for flight, relatively, the kind that  
are thin and soft have better performance. The spars glued to the wings (see as Figure 5.3)  
together with the wing cloth, they change and determine the flexibility of the whole wing.  
After conducting many times of experiments, we choose the layout form as shown in Figure  
5.3. What need to be stressed here is that the layout that we are using now is just the result of  
experience, and we still haven’t thoroughly research about this. But we believe the wing  
flexibility problem is a rather complicated and deterministic one, and we will try to do more  
in-depth study in this aspect in the near future.  
        What needs to be emphasized is that the flapping mechanism design is the most  
difficult and important part. After many times of trials and modifications, we came to the  
conclusion that the selection of motor and gear reduction units and their combinations are of  
decisive importance for the problem whether the FAV will fly. We choose the appropriate  
motor by computing the maximum required power output according to the intended  
maximum weight and payload and the specified flapping frequency. And then compute the  
suitable reduction ratio and the battery voltage according to the required torque needed to  
drive the spatial crank and rocker mechanism. Last but not the least, the position of the mass  
center of the whole body is also quite important, which will directly determine the stability of  
the prototype when flying. Since when flapping, aerodynamic forces generated on the wings  
surfaces and tail surface is changing all the time, both the working point and the direction. So  
the torques of these forces relative to the center of body mass is also changing. How to make  
these two torques to equilibrate is then become a problem how to arrange components’  
positions, especially those bulky ones. Our experience is that to simplify the prototype as a  
fixed wing airplane with a certain anhedral, since the FAV has a larger positive extreme  
position than negative extreme position. And then we can use the simplified analysis method  
that the resultant aerodynamic forces generated in wings are roughly located in the position  
about one third of the chord length away from the leading edge. We should guarantee that the  
working point of this force is closer to the prototype’s head then the center of body mass  
(CM), and is higher than CM along z axis, while the CM can be obtained by using tools of  
any 3D designing software. Our experience demonstrate that this simplification idea is quite  
useful. However, there are still quite a lot of trivial details and factors that will make the  
result not so desirable.  
  
  
ACS Journal for Science and Engineering                                                       64  
Vol. 3 - No. 1 - March 2023                                               E-ISSN: 2582-9610  
  
  
  
  
        Figure 5.2: Gear Assembly                       Figure 5.3: Main Frame  
  
VI      KINEMATICS  
        Since we adopted the scheme that the left and right wings are sharing the same power  
resource and using the same pair of transmission mechanism, so the wing flapping motion of  
each side is completely symmetrical. Which means, in any time, they both have the exact  
opposite and antisymmetrical angular position and angular velocity. Meanwhile, in one cycle  
the flapping motion of the up-stroke and down-stroke is also antisymmetrical, for each of  
them accounting for half the time of the whole flapping period, and for wings of each side it  
has opposite characteristics at the same position of down stroke and up stroke. Figure5.5 is  
the schematic diagram of the flapping mechanism.  
  
  
  
  
               Figure 5.4: The Schematic Diagram of Flapping Mechanism  
  
                       Table 1: Parameters of the FAV Prototype  
                     Parameters                            Values  
                      Total mass                             455 g  
                     Stroke range                          11°~45°  
                  Flapping frequency                       3~7 Hz  
              Kv value of brushless motor                 Kv 3600  
                        Battery                    3S LiPo 11.1 V 800 mAh  
                   Flight endurance                         15 min  
  
  
ACS Journal for Science and Engineering                                                   65  
Vol. 3 - No. 1 - March 2023                                                 E-ISSN: 2582-9610  
  
  
   1. From the schematic diagram above we can see that OABCDE is then the spatial link  
      mechanism which realizes the flapping motion. While AB is the crank which  
      transmits rotational motion of motor, and CD is the rocker which acts as the wing  
      radius. B and C are two spherical bearing pairs. Link BC transfer the rotational  
      motion of crank AB to the reciprocating swing of the rocker CD. 𝜑is the angle  
      between crank AB and z axis, which refers to the angular position of the crank. And  
      𝜃is the angle between the rocker and y axis, which is used to denote the angular  
      position of the wing.  
   2. When crank AB revolves at a constant speed, we specifically analyzed the angular  
      position and angular velocity of the rocker CD. Figure5.6shows the two limit angles  
      of the rocker during strokes and shows the variation of angular velocity the rocker CD  
      when the flapping frequency is normalized to 1 Hz. We can see that the positive  
      extreme angular position is 45°, and the lowest extreme angular position is –11°.  
      During our fabrication of prototypes, we found that the length of the spatial link BC  
      determines the stroke ranges of the rocker CD, and this range will greatly affect the  
      pitching stability when flying.  
   3. According to the above simulation result, we can see that when crank AB rotates at a  
      constant speed rocker CD swings circularly and accordingly, and at the mean time CD  
      does not swing at a constant angular velocity. During down stroke, the angular  
      velocity of the rocker first increases to a maximum value from a minimum velocity,  
      and then decreases to a minimum speed. For up stroke, the changing process is to the  
      opposite, increases first and then decreases. What calls for special attention is that the  
      time elapse for the angular velocity increasing process of up stroke is the same as the  
      time elapse spent in the decreasing process of down stroke, and the time elapse for the  
      decreasing process of up stroke is the same as the time elapse spent in the increasing  
      process of up stroke. The up stroke and down stroke process of the whole flapping  
      period is completely antisymmetrical. Rocker CD reaches its highest angular velocity  
      at the position of roughly the center of each stroke, which is about 17°.  
   4. The flapping motion in up stroke and down stroke are completely the same, which  
      means theoretically speaking, the positive lift generated during the down stroke and  
      the negative lift generated during the up stroke should be balanced out, however  
      prototypes of this kind can still fly, which means the resulting lift forces are still  
      positive. And this phenomenon shows that lift produced by flapping motion cannot be  
      explained in a traditional way. Maybe theories like leading-edge vortex effect put  
      forward by scientists can illustrate why our ornithopters can still make its fly  
  
  
  
  
ACS Journal for Science and Engineering                                                      66  
Vol. 3 - No. 1 - March 2023                                                 E-ISSN: 2582-9610  
  
  
  
  
           Figure 5.5: Angular Position of Two Extreme Position of Rocker CD  
  
VII    EXPERIMENTAL DETAILS  
1)      Indoor Experiments  
        After we have done the assembling work, we conducted both indoor and outdoor  
experiments to verify the performance of our prototypes. The indoor experiments conducted  
by hitching the prototype to the ceiling to flap at a certain frequency and usually flaps for at  
least five minutes, to make sure the structure will produce enough lift and thrust, and at the  
same time to guarantee the structure has good durability. The following pictures show the  
process of our indoor experiments. Figure6.1shows that we usually first fixed our prototype  
to a resilient mount which can beat up and down circularly when the FW-UAV flaps its  
wings, and Figure 6.1shows the scene when we hanging our FW-UAV to preliminarily check  
its aerodynamic performance.  
  
  
  
  
       Figure 6.1: Indoor Experiments to Check the FAV’s Mechanical Durability  
                          and Basic Aerodynamic Performance  
  
2)     Outdoor Experiments  
       After we have preliminarily examined our FW-UAV’s mechanical and aerodynamic  
performances, we then conducted the outdoor experiments (see as Figure 6.2), i.e. free flight,  
to examine the systematical performance. Usually, the performance of free flight is affected  
by various aspects. Except from the mechanical and aerodynamic layout itself, the wind  
conditions and the operator’s proficiency of remote controlling also play an important role.  
The following pictures show scenes when we were flying our FW-UAV prototype.  
  
ACS Journal for Science and Engineering                                                      67  
Vol. 3 - No. 1 - March 2023                                               E-ISSN: 2582-9610  
  
  
  
  
                               Figure 6.2: Outdoor Experiments  
  
VIII   COMPONENTS  
                              Table 2:List of Components Utilized  
     Component Name                                    Materials & Use  
1.Frame                          Body Frame –Balsa Wood Main Frame  
2.Wing Frame                     Bamboo Sticks  
                                 Washing Machine Timing Gear Stage Gear Box  
3.Gear Assembly                  a) Spur Gear  
                                 b) Cluster Gear Gearing System  
4.Mini Coreless Motor            3.7Volt DC Magnetic Motor 58000RPM  
(Brushed Motor)                  Stainless steel  
                                 Power Source  
5.Battery                        a) 3.7V 200mahLi-Polymer  
                                 b) 3.7V 300mahLi-Polymer  
6.Thermocol                      Frame Cover  
7. PVC Foam Sheet                Gears holder  
8.Thin PVC Sheet                 Tail Section  
                                 2 Model IDUINO SG90  
                                 Mass 99 Gm  
9.Micro Servos  
                                 Operating speed - 0.2/60 Degree Stall Torque – 1 Kg/cm  
                                 (4.8V) Operating Voltage – 2.8V – 4.2V  
                                 Flysky Channel-6  
11.Transmitter  
                                 Model – Wing /Glider Power – 6V 1.5 AA*4  
                                 FS-iA6B  
12.Receiver                      Power 4.0-6.5V  
                                 RF Range 2,408-2.475GHz  
  
IX     CONCLUSION  
       We developed our FW-UAV prototype, and have done some preliminary analysis of  
both the transmission mechanism and flight data. Through experiments we have gained a lot  
of experience to make our FW-UAV better. However, we still haven’t research deeply in how  
parameters like flapping frequency, stroke amplitude and the range of strokes affect dynamics  
  
ACS Journal for Science and Engineering                                                   68  
Vol. 3 - No. 1 - March 2023                                                E-ISSN: 2582-9610  
  
  
of the flight. We need to model our prototype and based on that work out the corresponding  
control strategies to make sure it flies as expected. We will direct at these problems and give  
some more detailed and in-depth analysis in future works.  
  
X      REFERENCES  
[1]    Dragos Viieru, Jian Tang, Yongshen Lian, HaoLio and Wei Shyy (2006), “Flapping  
       and Flexible Wing Aerodynamucs of Low Reynold’s Number Flight Vehicles,”  
       presented at the 44th AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting and Exhibit, AIAA 2006-  
       503, pp. 9-12, Reno, Nevada.  
[2]    Aditya, A, Paranjapa, Michael R Dorothy, Soon-Jo Chung, and KiD. Lee, “A Flight  
       Mechanics Centric Review of Bird Scale Flapping Flight,” Presented at the University  
       of ILLINOIS at Urbana Campaign, IL61801, USA.  
[3]    Micael S Couceiro, N.M., Fonseca Ferreira & Tenreiro Machado, J.A (2000),  
       “Application of Fractional Algorithms in the Control of a Robtic Bird,” presented by  
       Repositorio Cientifico do Instituto Politecnico do porto.  
[4]    Chen Chen and Tianyu Zhang (2019), “A Review of Design and Fabrication of the  
       Bionic Flapping Wing Micro Air Vehicles,” presented at the Jilin University,  
       Changchun 130026, China.  
[5]    Boon Hong Cheaw, HannWoeiho and Elmi Abu Bakar (2019), “Wing Design,  
       Fabrication, and Analysis for an X-wing Flapping-wing Micro Air Vehicle”,  
       presented at the University of Sains Malaysia Tebal14300.  
[6]    Grand, Ch, Martinelli, P, Mouret, J.B. and Doncieux, S (2016), “Flapping Wing  
       Mechanism For a Bird Sized UAVs,” presented at the ISIR University Paris 6, France.  
[7]    Jagadeesh, R, Madhumathi, S and Vijayaraja, K (2019),“Design and Analysis of  
       Flapping Wing UAV,” presented at the International Journal of Engineering Research  
       and Technology.  
[8]    Jones,K.D. and Platzer, M.F (2006), “Flapping Wing Aero Hydromechanics in Nature  
       and Engineering,” presented at the Aero Hydro Research and a Technology  
       Associates, Pebble Beach, California USA.  
[9]    Chunjinyu and Yi Zhaao (2014), “Lift and Thrust Characteristics of Flapping Wing  
       Aerial Vehicle with Pitching and Flapping Motion,” presented at the Institute of  
       Flight Vehicle Engineering, Nanchang Hongkong University, Nanchang China.  
[10]   Siara Hunt (2017), “A Study on the Control, Dynamics, and Hardware of Micro  
       Aerial Flapping Wing Vehicle,” presented at Embry Riddle Aeronautical University,  
       Dayton Beach Florida.  
  
  
  
  
ACS Journal for Science and Engineering                                                     69  
  
